Add Mini Apps series (#3938)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/mini-apps/mini-app-devtools/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Mini app DevTools
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2021-01-25
# updated: 2021-01-25
description: |
  This chapter provides details on the DevTools experience of various mini apps platforms.
tags:
  - mini-apps
---

## The developer experience

Now that I have covered mini apps _per se_, I want to focus on the developer experience for the
various super app platforms. Mini app development on all platforms happens in IDEs that are provided
for free by the super app platforms. While there are more, I want to focus on the four most popular
ones, and a fifth for Quick App for comparison.

## Mini app IDEs

> Like the super apps, the IDEs are in the majority available in only Chinese. You actually want to

Author: ```suggestion
Like the super apps, the majority of the IDEs are available only in Chinese. You actually want to
```

> Like the super apps, the IDEs are in the majority available in only Chinese. You actually want to

Author: Rephrased.

  <img src="bytedance-devtools.png" alt="ByteDance DevTools application window showing simulator, code editor, and debugger.">
  <figcaption class="w-figure">
    ByteDance DevTools with simulator, code editor, and debugger.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="quick-app-devtools.png" alt="Quick App DevTools application window showing code editor, simulator, and debugger.">
  <figcaption class="w-figure">
    Quick App DevTools with code editor, simulator, and debugger.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

As you can see, the fundamental components of all IDEs are very similar. You always have a code
editor based on the [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/), the same project
that also powers [VS Code](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode). In all IDEs, there is a debugger
based on the [Chrome DevTools front-end](https://github.com/ChromeDevTools/devtools-frontend) with
some modifications, more on those later (see [Debugger](/mini-app-devtools/#debugger)). The IDEs _per se_ are
implemented either as [NW.js](https://nwjs.io/) or as [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/) apps,
the simulators in the IDEs are realized as an

> [NW.js `<webview>`](https://docs.nwjs.io/en/latest/References/webview%20Tag/) respectively

Author: ```suggestion
[NW.js `<webview>`](https://docs.nwjs.io/en/latest/References/webview%20Tag/) or
```

> [Electron `<webview>`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/webview-tag), which in turn are based on

Author: Simply "or". Rephrased.

> [Electron `<webview>`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/webview-tag), which in turn are based on
> a [Chromium `<webview>`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/webview-tag). If you are interested in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Electron `<webview>` tag](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/webview-tag), which in turn are based on
a [Chromium `<webview>` tag](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/webview-tag). If you are interested in
```

Reviewer: @tomayac This is probably not obvious to people who aren't Electron-literate. Can you please make this change throughout.

> a [Chromium `<webview>`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/webview-tag). If you are interested in

Author: Here, it's really the tag.

the IDE internals, you can oftentimes simply inspect them with Chrome DevTools with the keyboard
shortcut <kbd>cmd</kbd>/<kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>alt</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="baidu-devtools-inspect.png" alt="Chrome DevTools used to inspect Baidu's DevTools showing the simulator's `webview` in the Chrome DevTools' Elements panel.">
  <figcaption class="w-figure">

>     Inspecting Baidu DevTools with Chrome DevTools reveals that the simulator is realized as an Electron <code>&lt;webview&gt;</code>.

Author: Again I mean the tag.

  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Simulator and real device testing and debugging

The simulator is comparable with what you might know from Chrome DevTools'
[device mode](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/device-mode). You can simulate
different Android and iOS devices, change the scale and device orientation, but also simulate
various network states, memory pressure, a barcode reading event, unexpected termination, and dark
mode.

While the built-in simulator suffices to get a rough feeling for how the app behaves, on-device
testing, like with regular Web apps, is irreplaceable. Testing an in-development mini app is just a

> QR code scan away. For example, in ByteDance DevTools, scanning a dynamically IDE-generated QR code

Author: ```suggestion
QR code scan away. For example, in ByteDance DevTools, scanning a QR code dynamically generated by the IDE
```

case of WeChat, the panel is called
[Wxml](https://developers.weixin.qq.com/miniprogram/en/dev/framework/view/wxml/), which stands for
WeiXin Markup Language. In Baidu DevTools, it's called
[Swan Element](https://smartprogram.baidu.com/docs/develop/framework/dev/). ByteDance DevTools calls
it
[Bxml](https://microapp.bytedance.com/docs/zh-CN/mini-app/develop/guide/mini-app-framework/view/ttml).
Alipay names it [AXML](https://opendocs.alipay.com/mini/framework/axml), and Quick App references
the panel simply as [UX](https://doc.quickapp.cn/tutorial/framework/for.html). I will dive into
these markup languages [later](/mini-app-markup-styling-and-scripting/#markup-languages).

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="wechat-devtools-wxml.png" alt="Inspecting an image with WeChat DevTools' 'Wxml' panel. It shows that the tag in use is an `image` tag.">
  <figcaption class="w-figure">
    Inspecting an <code>&lt;image&gt;</code> element with WeChat DevTools.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Custom elements under the hood

Inspecting the WebView on a real device via [chrome://inspect/#devices](chrome://inspect/#devices)

> reveals that WeChat DevTools was deliberately lying to us. Where WeChat DevTools showed an

Author: ```suggestion
reveals that WeChat DevTools was deliberately hiding the truth. Where WeChat DevTools showed an
```

- [WeChat DevTools](https://developers.weixin.qq.com/miniprogram/dev/devtools/download.html)
- [Alipay DevTools](https://render.alipay.com/p/f/fd-jwq8nu2a/pages/home/index.html)
- [Baidu DevTools](https://smartprogram.baidu.com/docs/develop/devtools/history/)
- [ByteDance DevTools](https://microapp.bytedance.com/docs/zh-CN/mini-app/develop/developer-instrument/developer-instrument-update-and-download)
- [Quick App DevTools](https://www.quickapp.cn/docCenter/IDEPublicity)

## Mini app starter projects

To get started quickly with mini app development, all super app providers offer demo apps
that can be downloaded and tested immediately, and that are sometimes also integrated in the "New
Project" wizards of the various IDEs.

- [WeChat demo](https://github.com/wechat-miniprogram/miniprogram-demo)
- [Alipay demo](https://opendocs.alipay.com/mini/introduce/demo)
- [Baidu demo](https://smartprogram.baidu.com/docs/develop/tutorial/demo/)
- [ByteDance demo](https://microapp.bytedance.com/docs/zh-CN/mini-app/introduction/plug-in/example)
- [Quick App demo](https://github.com/quickappcn/sample)

## Development flow

> After launching the IDE and loading or creating a (demo) mini app, the first step is always to log

Author: Yes, there's essentially no logged out development.
